Our Brands and Products
We offer a broad range of products, including jeans, casual and dress pants, tops, shorts, skirts, jackets, footwear and related accessories. Across all of our brands, pants – including jeans, casual pants and dress pants – represented 65%, 65% and 68% of our total units sold in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Men's products generated 64%, 67% and 69% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Levi's® Brand
The Levi's® brand epitomizes classic, authentic American style and effortless cool. Levi's® is an authentic and original lifestyle brand and the #1 brand globally in jeanswear (measured by total retail sales). Since their inception in 1873, Levi's® jeans have become one of the most recognizable garments in the world – reflecting the aspirations and earning the loyalty of people for generations. Consumers around the world instantly recognize the distinctive traits of Levi's® jeans, including the Arcuate Stitching Design and the Red Tab Device. The Levi's® brand continues to evolve to meet the tastes of today's consumers, driven by its distinctive pioneering and innovative spirit. Our range of leading jeanswear, other apparel items and accessories for men, women and children is available in more than 110 countries, allowing individuals around the world to express their personal style.
The Levi's® brand encompasses a range of products. Levi's® Red Tab™ products are the foundation of the brand, consisting of a wide spectrum of jeans and jeanswear offered in a variety of fits, fabrics, finishes, styles and price points intended to appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers. The line includes the iconic 501® jean, the original and best-selling five-pocket jean of all time. The line also incorporates a full range of jeanswear fits and styles designed specifically for women. Sales of Red Tab™ products represented the majority of our Levi's® brand net revenues in all three of our regions in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018. We also offer premium products around the world under the Levi's® brand, including a range of premium pants, tops, shorts, skirts, jackets, footwear, and related accessories.
Our Levi's® brand products accounted for 87%, 87% and 86% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, approximately half of which were generated in our Americas region.
Dockers® Brand
Founded in 1986, the Dockers® brand sparked a revolution in the way millions of men dressed around the world, shifting from the standard issue suit to a more casual look. 30 years later, the Dockers® brand continues to embody the spirit of khakis and define business casual. Since its introduction, the brand has focused on men's khakis and the essential clothing accessories to go with them.
Our Dockers® brand products accounted for 5%, 6% and 7% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Although the substantial majority of these net sales were in the Americas region, Dockers® brand products were sold in more than 50 countries.
Signature by Levi Strauss & Co.™ and Denizen® Brands
In addition to our Levi's® and Dockers® brands, we offer the Signature by Levi Strauss & Co.™ and Denizen® brands, which are focused on value-conscious consumers who seek quality craftsmanship and great fit and style at affordable prices. We offer denim jeans, casual pants, tops and jackets in a variety of fits, fabrics and finishes for men, women and children under the Signature by Levi Strauss & Co.™ brand through the mass retail channel in the United States and Canada. The Denizen® brand was introduced in the United States starting in 2011, and includes a variety of jeans to complement active lifestyles and to empower consumers to express their aspirations, individuality and attitudes. The Denizen® brand is sold through wholesale accounts in the United States.
Our Signature by Levi Strauss & Co.™ and Denizen® brand products collectively accounted for 8%, 7% and 7% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.