Our products are sold in more than 110 countries, grouped into three geographic regions that comprise our three operating segments: the Americas, Europe and Asia (which includes the Middle East and Africa). We service our customers through our global infrastructure, developing, sourcing and marketing our products around the world. Although our brands are recognized as authentically "American," we derived over half of our net revenues from outside the United States in fiscal year 2020. A summary of financial information for each regional operating segment is found in Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this report. As a global company with sales and operations in foreign countries, we are subject to risks of doing business in foreign countries. For more information, see "Item 1A – Risk Factors"."
Our products are sold in approximately 50,000 retail locations worldwide, including approximately 3,100 brand-dedicated stores and shop-in-shops. In the United States, chain retailers and department stores have traditionally been the primary distribution channels for our Levi's® and Dockers® products. Outside the United States, department stores, specialty retailers, franchised or other brand-dedicated stores and shop-in-shops have traditionally been our primary distribution channels. Levi's® and Dockers® products are also sold through our brand-dedicated company-operated retail stores and through our global digital business, which includes our company-operated e-commerce sites as well as the online businesses of our wholesale customers, including those of traditional wholesalers as well as pure play (online-only) wholesalers. We distribute Signature by Levi Strauss & Co.™ and Denizen® brand products primarily through mass channel retailers in the Americas, including the e-commerce sites operated by some of our key wholesale customers and other pure play customers.
We were founded in San Francisco, California in 1853 and were incorporated in Delaware in 1970. We conduct our operations outside the United States through foreign subsidiaries. We have headquarters in San Francisco, Brussels and Singapore. Our primary corporate office is located at Levi's Plaza, 1155 Battery Street, San Francisco, California 94111, and our main telephone number is (415) 501-6000.
Our website – www.levistrauss.com – contains additional and detailed information about our history, our products and our commitments. Financial news and reports and related information about our company can be found at levistrauss.com/investors/financial-news.
