History and Corporate Citizenship
Our story began in San Francisco, California in 1853 as a wholesale dry goods business. We invented the blue jean 20 years later. In 1873, we received a U.S. patent for “waist overalls” with metal rivets at points of strain. The first product line designated by the lot number "501" was created in 1890.
In the 19th and early 20th centuries, our work pants were worn primarily by cowboys, miners and other working men in the western United States. Then, in 1934, we introduced our first jeans for women, and after World War II, our jeans began to appeal to a wider market. By the 1960s, they had become a symbol of American culture, representing a unique blend of history and youth. We opened our export and international businesses in the 1950s and 1960s, respectively. The Dockers® brand helped drive "Casual Friday" in the 1990s and has been a cornerstone of casual menswear for more than 30 years.
Today, descendants of the family of Levi Strauss continue to be actively involved in our company. Our Class B common stock is primarily owned by these descendants and their relatives and trusts established for their behalf. In order to facilitate a forum for frequent, open and constructive dialogue between us and these stockholders, the family members have organized a family council, which engages with us on topics of mutual interest, such as our industry, governance, ownership and philanthropy. Management shares information and interacts with the family members, including the family council, in a manner consistent with all applicable laws and regulations.
Throughout this long history, we have upheld our strong belief that we can help shape society through civic engagement and community involvement, responsible labor and workplace practices, philanthropy, ethical conduct, environmental stewardship and transparency. We engage in a "profits through principles" business approach and constantly strive to set higher standards for ourselves and the industry. Our milestone initiatives over the years include integrating our factories prior to the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; developing a comprehensive supplier code of conduct that requires safe and healthy working conditions before such codes of conduct became commonplace among multinational apparel companies; and offering benefits to same-sex partners in the 1990s, long before most other companies.
Sustainability
We continue to deliver industry-leading sustainability approaches and product innovations that support our vision of a circular economy, an economic system aimed at eliminating waste and the continual use of resources, in the apparel industry. In 2020, we achieved a number of important milestones and received welcome recognition. Early in the year, we confirmed that we had met the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals commitments we made in 2012, when we signed the Greenpeace Detox Solutions Commitment and the Joint Roadmap Toward Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals. Later in the year, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) awarded us an “A” scoring in its annual survey of company climate disclosures and actions.
In July 2020, building on our introduction of jeans made with cottonized hemp in 2019, we launched the Wellthread® line, our “most sustainable jeans ever,” a collaboration with the Swedish company re:newcell. Our Wellthread® garments use more recycled denim than we’ve ever used before, and are fully recyclable. In October, we launched the SecondHand recommerce program, which helps us extend the life of denim products and tap into a growing resale market, a step in the direction of developing more circular products and practices.
While we take great pride in being a leader in these efforts, we know continued action is necessary to meet our future targets and drive the change we need to see in our industry. We’re proud to report that our owned-and-operated facilities now source approximately 70% of electricity from renewable sources, with the goal of 100% by 2025, in line with our science-based targets on climate to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This effort was buoyed by the installation of a solar array at our distribution center in Henderson, Nevada, which will help offset approximately 20% of that facility's electricity use and helped the facility later secure LEED Platinum certification.