Human Capital Management
As of November 29, 2020, we employed approximately 14,800 people, approximately 6,100 of whom were located in the Americas, 4,600 were located in Europe, and 4,100 were located in Asia. As of such date, approximately 1,700 of our employees were associated with the manufacturing and procurement of our products, 7,900 worked in retail, including seasonal employees, 1,300 worked in distribution and 3,900 were other non-production employees. As of November 29, 2020, approximately 4,080 of our employees were represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.
Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging. We believe in living our values: originality, empathy, integrity and courage. This means we strive to create a workplace where everyone feels valued, empowered and welcomed to be their authentic selves.
Since 2018, our workforce diversity, inclusion and belonging efforts have been focused on empowering women, measuring and ensuring pay equity and recruiting diverse talent. Some of our key achievements include establishing a Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging function, launching employee resource groups and career development programs for underrepresented populations and fostering inclusion and allyship globally.
In 2020, we recognized the need to do more, and made a series of new commitments to hire, support, promote and elevate diversity at the company, with a goal to ensure our workforce is as diverse as the communities we serve. This includes our specific commitments to improve our representation in our corporate and leadership ranks, ensure an inclusive culture and advocate externally in support of racial justice. We published our U.S. demographic representation data for the first time ever, with a commitment to share annually. In fiscal year 2021, we hired a Chief Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Officer and welcomed our first Black board of directors member, key additions that we believe will help guide and enable our global commitment to diversity, inclusion, and belonging.
Pay Equity. In fiscal year 2020, we conducted a pay equity study for our U.S. non-union population. The study considered job level, performance, experience, and other factors such as promotion recency to examine our relative pay practices across gender and ethnicity in each population. We did not find any significant pay differences across gender and ethnicity. We have committed to conduct this study in the U.S. every other year and are working on a global approach that is appropriate for countries with smaller employee counts.
Total Rewards. Our benefits are designed to help employees and their families stay healthy, meet their financial goals, protect their income and help them balance their work and personal lives. These benefits include health and wellness, paid time off, employee assistance, competitive pay, career growth opportunities, paid volunteer time, product discounts, and a culture of recognition.