Marketing and Promotion
Our marketing is rooted in globally consistent brand messages that reflect the unique attributes of our brands, including the Levi's® brand as the authentic and original jeanswear brand and the Dockers® brand as the definitive khaki. We continually strengthen our portfolio of brands and our positioning at the center of popular culture with a diverse mix of marketing initiatives to drive consumer demand, such as through social media and digital and mobile outlets, sponsorships, product placement in leading fashion magazines and with celebrities, television and radio advertisements, personal sponsorships and endorsements, and selective collaborations with key influencers, integrating ourselves with significant cultural events, and on-the-ground efforts such as street-level events and similar targeted "viral" marketing activities. We also connect with sport and music fans across the world, including through the naming rights to the stadium for the San Francisco 49ers, which we secured in 2013.
We are focused on strengthening our brands globally. Through product and communications, our plan is to drive impact and engage the hearts and minds of our consumers while connecting directly and delivering the best experience possible through our DTC channel. In 2020, when all music festivals were cancelled or postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we launched a month-long virtual music festival with our Instagram Live 5:01 concert series, which allowed us to connect with our fans during a time when most were sheltering in place due to government and state imposed restrictions. We rolled out curbside pickup, buy online pick up in store, and launched a “virtual concierge,” offering consumers the chance to have one-on-one interactions with a store associate in the comfort of their own home. In addition, we were one of the first brands to launch on TikTok’s new “Shop Now” program in the U.S., partnering with influencers to showcase our F.L.X. laser technology and generating exposure through selective collaborations with iconic partners, including LEGO, Nintendo's Super Mario Brothers and Peanuts, with a surprise Levi’s-by-Valentino collaboration unveiled on the runway in Milan.
Our marketing organization includes both global and regional marketing teams. Our global marketing team is responsible for developing a toolkit of marketing assets and brand guidelines to be applied across all marketing activities, including media, engagement, brand environment and in-store activation. Our regional marketing teams adapt global tools for local relevance and execute marketing strategies within the markets where we operate.
We also use our websites, including www.levi.com and www.dockers.com, in relevant markets to enhance consumer understanding of our brands and help consumers find and buy our products. Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, these websites is not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report and references to our website addressed in this Annual Report are inactive textual references only.