Government Regulations
Our business activities are global and are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws, rules and regulations. For example, substantially all of our import operations are subject to complex trade and customs laws, regulations and tax requirements such as sanctions orders or tariffs set by governments through mutual agreements or unilateral actions. In addition, the countries in which our products are manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional duties, tariffs or other restrictions on our imports or adversely modify existing restrictions. Changes in tax policy or trade regulations, the disallowance of tax deductions on imported merchandise, or the imposition of new tariffs on imported products, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position as compared to prior periods, and we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. For more information on the potential impacts of government regulations affecting our business, see "Item 1A - Risk Factors".
Intellectual Property
We have more than 5,400 trademark registrations and pending applications in approximately 180 jurisdictions worldwide, and we acquire rights in new trademarks according to business needs. Substantially all of our global trademarks are owned by Levi Strauss & Co. We regard our trademarks as one of our most valuable assets and believe they have substantial value in the marketing of our products. The Levi's速, Dockers速 and 501速 trademarks, the Arcuate Stitching Design, the Tab Device, the Two Horse速 Design, the Housemark and the Wings and Anchor Design are among our core trademarks.
We protect these trademarks by registering them with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and with governmental agencies in other countries, particularly where our products are manufactured or sold. We work vigorously to enforce and protect our trademark rights by engaging in regular market reviews, helping local law enforcement authorities detect and prosecute counterfeiters, issuing cease-and-desist letters against third parties infringing or denigrating our trademarks, opposing registration of infringing trademarks, and initiating litigation as necessary. We are currently pursuing over 260 infringement matters around the world. We also work with trade groups and industry participants seeking to strengthen laws relating to the protection of intellectual property rights in markets around the world.
As of November 29, 2020, we had fourteen issued U.S. patents and 43 U.S. patent applications pending. Our patents expire between 2025 and 2039. We also have 34 international and foreign patent applications pending. We will continually assess the ability to patent new intellectual property, as we develop technologies that we believe are innovative, such as our F.L.X. technology.