We are subject to periodic claims and litigation that could result in unexpected expenses and could ultimately be resolved against us.
From time to time, we may be involved in litigation and other proceedings, including matters related to commercial disputes, product liability, intellectual property, trade, customs laws and regulations, employment, regulatory compliance and other claims related to our business. Any such proceeding or audit could result in significant settlement amounts, damages, fines or other penalties, divert financial and management resources and result in significant legal fees. An unfavorable outcome of any particular proceeding could exceed the limits of our insurance policies, or our insurance carriers may decline to fund such final settlements or judgments, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any such proceeding could negatively impact our brand equity and our reputation. 
Risks Relating to Our Debt
We have debt and interest payment requirements at a level that may restrict our future operations.
As of November 29, 2020, we had $1.6 billion of debt, all of which was unsecured, and we had $713.5 million of additional borrowing capacity under our credit facility. The credit facility is secured by domestic inventories, accounts receivable, and other assets such as the Levi’s® trademarks in the U.S. Our debt requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal due under our debt, which reduces funds available for other business purposes and results in us having lower net income (or greater net loss) than we otherwise would have had. This dedicated use of cash could impact our ability to successfully compete by, for example:
•increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including any adverse economic and industry conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, such as store closures, decreased foot traffic and recession;
•limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and industry;
•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors that have less debt; and
•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing required to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes.
A substantial portion of our debt is Euro-denominated senior notes. In addition, borrowings under our credit facility bear interest at variable rates and a portion of those borrowings may be in Canadian Dollars. As a result, increases in market interest rates and changes in foreign exchange rates could require a greater portion of our cash flow to be used to pay interest, which could further hinder our operations. Increases in market interest rates may also affect the trading price of our debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.
In addition, certain loans made by us and financing extended to us are made at variable rates that use LIBOR as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate, and may be hedged with LIBOR-based interest rate derivatives. Regulators and law-enforcement agencies in a number of different jurisdictions have conducted and continue to conduct civil and criminal investigations into potential manipulation or attempted manipulation of LIBOR submissions by panel banks. LIBOR is currently calculated and published for various currencies and periods by the benchmark’s administrator, ICE Benchmark Administration Limited (“IBA”), which is regulated for such purposes by the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”). The FCA has statutory powers to compel panel banks to provide rate quotations for the purpose of calculating LIBOR. On July 27, 2017, Andrew Bailey, the chief executive of the FCA gave a speech in which he questioned the sustainability of LIBOR and announced that the FCA would no longer require banks to submit quotations on which LIBOR rates are based after the end of 2021. However, on November 30, 2020, the IBA announced that it would consult in early December 2020 on its intention to cease the publication of the one-week and two-month U.S. dollar LIBOR settings immediately following the LIBOR publication on December 31, 2021, and the remaining U.S. dollar LIBOR settings (overnight and one, three, six and 12 months) immediately following the LIBOR publication on June 30, 2023. IBA published this consultation on December 4, 2020 and expects to close the consultation for feedback on January 25, 2021. Concurrent with IBA’s announcement on November 30, 2020, the FCA announced that it welcomed and supported the prospective continuation of most settings of LIBOR beyond the end of 2021, as proposed by the IBA.
Accordingly, many market participants anticipate that in the near future LIBOR will cease being a widely used benchmark interest rate and may cease being published altogether. The current and any future reforms and other pressures may cause LIBOR to be replaced with a new benchmark or to perform differently than in the past, including during any transition period. The Credit Agreement Amendment (defined below) contemplates a procedure for transitioning from LIBOR upon the occurrence of specified events. Nevertheless, the consequences of these market developments cannot be entirely predicted and a transition from LIBOR, even if administered consistent with the credit facility’s provisions, could increase the cost of our variable rate indebtedness.
Both New York State and federal legislation in the U.S. is under consideration that if enacted could result, upon the unavailability of LIBOR, in the replacement of certain fallback provisions in LIBOR-based financing agreements. Under the proposed legislation, some of these existing fallback provisions would be replaced by a provision specifying that the replacement rate and related adjustments recommended by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“ARRC”), the committee in the United States convened to ensure a successful transition from LIBOR, would be used to establish the interest-rate on the financing. The legislation would also require the use of the benchmark replacement rate and related adjustments recommended by the AARC in the event that there are no fallback provisions in a financing. The legislation would not impact credit agreements that already include fallbacks to the changes recommended by the ARRC. Any such legislation adopted in New York State would have applicability only to agreements governed by New York law. There can be no assurance as to the final form of any such New York or federal legislation or as to whether any such legislation will be adopted.
In the event that one or more LIBOR-based interest rate derivatives are entered into to hedge variable rate indebtedness, the LIBOR rate specified therein will be determined from time to time by reference to a publication page specified in the relevant definitions of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (“ISDA”). However, if such rate does not appear on the relevant page, and the above-referenced legislation is not adopted that would address the replacement of LIBOR under such derivatives, LIBOR will be determined in accordance with dealer polls conducted by the calculation agent under the agreement governing the derivative. This dealer polling mechanism may not be successful in arriving at a replacement interest rate for LIBOR. Even if the dealer polling mechanism successfully arrives at a replacement interest rate for derivatives, that rate could differ significantly from the interest rates used for our variable-rate indebtedness.
The Tax Act also places limitations on businesses' abilities to deduct interest expenses. If our adjusted taxable income were to change, we may not be able to fully deduct our interest expenses.
Restrictions in our notes, indentures and credit facility may limit our activities, including dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions.
Our credit facility and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes contain restrictions, including covenants limiting our ability to incur additional debt, grant liens, make acquisitions and other investments, prepay specified debt, consolidate, merge or acquire other businesses or engage in other fundamental changes, sell assets, pay dividends and other distributions, repurchase stock, enter into transactions with affiliates, enter into capital leases or certain leases not in the ordinary course of business, enter into certain derivatives, grant negative pledges on our assets, make loans or other investments, guarantee third-party obligations, engage in sale leasebacks and make changes in our corporate structure. These restrictions, in combination with our leveraged condition, may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy, grow our business or compete with companies not similarly restricted.
If our foreign subsidiaries are unable to distribute cash to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations under our debt securities, which could force us to sell assets or use cash that we were planning to use elsewhere in our business.
We conduct our international operations through foreign subsidiaries and we only receive the cash that remains after our foreign subsidiaries satisfy their obligations. We may depend upon funds from our foreign subsidiaries for a portion of the funds necessary to meet our debt service obligations. Any agreements our foreign subsidiaries enter into with other parties, as well as applicable laws and regulations limiting the right and ability of non-U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates to pay dividends and remit cash to affiliated companies, may restrict the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. If those subsidiaries are unable to transfer the amount of cash that we need, we may be unable to make payments on our debt obligations, which could force us to sell assets or use cash that we were planning on using elsewhere in our business, which could hinder our operations.
Changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic conditions may affect our liquidity, increasing borrowing costs and limiting our financing options.
Our long-term debt is currently rated BB+ by S&P Global Ratings, Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc and BB by Fitch Ratings, Inc. If our credit ratings are lowered, borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term credit facilities may increase and our financing options, including our access to the unsecured credit market, could be limited. In addition, macroeconomic conditions such as increased volatility or disruption in the credit markets, including the recent volatility due, in part, to the COVID-19 pandemic, could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing or refinance existing debt on terms that would be acceptable to us.
