Our business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas, as well as risks associated with potential tariffs or a global trade war.
We import materials and finished garments into all of our operating regions. Our ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes and work stoppages, political unrest, security incidents, severe weather, or security requirements in the United States and other countries. These issues could delay importation of products or require us to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to our customers. These alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transportation costs, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition, specifically our gross margin and overall profitability.
Substantially all of our import operations are subject to complex trade and customs laws, regulations and tax requirements such as sanctions orders or tariffs set by governments through mutual agreements or unilateral actions. In addition, the countries in which our products are manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional duties, tariffs or other restrictions on our imports or adversely modify existing restrictions. Adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the failure by us or our suppliers to comply with trade regulations or similar laws, could harm our business. In this regard, the increasingly protectionist trade policy in the United States and the Brexit process between the United Kingdom and the European Union have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to future tax and trade regulations.
Changes in tax policy or trade regulations, the disallowance of tax deductions on imported merchandise, or the imposition of new tariffs on imported products, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
In 2018, the Trump Administration announced tariffs on steel and aluminum imported into the United States, which has resulted in reciprocal tariffs from the European Union on goods, including denim products, imported from the United States.
Because we manufacture most of our products outside the United States, these reciprocal tariffs are not expected to have a material impact on our business. The Trump Administration also imposed tariffs on goods imported from China in connection with China’s intellectual property practices and forced technology transfer, and has launched an investigation into currency manipulation and timber trade practices that may results in increased tariffs on impacts to the United States from Vietnam. Currently, of the products that we sell in the United States, less than 2% are manufactured in China. If the Office of the US Trade Representative follows through on its proposed China or Vietnam tariffs, or if additional tariffs or trade restrictions are implemented by the United States or other countries in connection with a global trade war, the cost of our products manufactured in China or other countries and imported into the United States or other countries could increase, which in turn could adversely affect the demand for these products and have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock
The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile or may decline steeply or suddenly regardless of our operating performance and we may not be able to meet investor or analyst expectations. You may lose all or part of your investment.
The market price of our Class A common stock may fluctuate or decline significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:
•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenues or other operating results;
•variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community;
•any forward-looking financial or operating information we may provide to the public or securities analysts, any changes in this information or our failure to meet expectations based on this information;
•actions of securities analysts who initiate or maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors;
•whether investors or securities analysts view our stock structure unfavorably, particularly our dual-class structure;
•additional shares of Class A common stock being sold into the market by us or our existing stockholders, or the anticipation of such sales;
•announcements by us or our competitors of significant products or features, innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, divestitures or other dispositions;
•changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of companies in our industry, including our vendors and competitors;
•price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of general economic trends;
•lawsuits threatened or filed against us, or events that negatively impact our reputation;
•developments in new legislation and pending lawsuits or regulatory actions, including interim or final rulings by judicial or regulatory bodies; and
•other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, natural disasters, industrial accidents, pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic), or responses to these events.
In addition, extreme price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets have affected and continue to affect many retail companies’ stock prices. Often, their stock prices have fluctuated in ways unrelated or disproportionate to the respective companies’ operating performance. In the past, stockholders have filed securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business and seriously harm our business.
Moreover, because of these fluctuations, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. This variability and unpredictability could also result in our failing to meet the expectations of industry or financial analysts or investors for any period. If our revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of analysts or investors or below any forecasts we may provide to the market, or if the forecasts we provide to the market are below the expectations of analysts or investors, the price of our Class A common stock could decline substantially. Such a decline could occur even when we have met any previously publicly stated revenues or earnings forecasts that we may provide.
An active trading market for our Class A common stock may not be sustained.
Our Class A common stock is currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "LEVI." However, we cannot assure you that an active trading market for our Class A common stock will be sustained. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of the likelihood that an active trading market for our Class A common stock will be maintained, the liquidity of any trading market, your ability to sell your shares of Class A common stock when desired or the prices that you may obtain for your shares.
Future sales of our Class A common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline.
If our existing stockholders, including employees, who obtain equity, sell or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. As of January 21, 2021 we had outstanding a total of 77,329,197 shares of Class A common stock and 320,730,620 shares of Class B common stock. Of these shares, only the shares of Class A common stock are currently freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), except for any shares held by persons who are not our “affiliates” as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act and who have complied with the holding period requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act.
Sales of a substantial number of such shares, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause our stock price to decline or make it more difficult for the holders of our Class A common stock to sell at a time and price that they deem appropriate.
Holders of more than 90% of our Class B common stock have contractual rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements for the public resale of the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of their Class B common stock, or to include such shares in registration statements that we may file.
The dual class structure of our common stock concentrates voting control with descendants of the family of Levi Strauss, who have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder approval, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may depress the trading price of our Class A common stock.
Our Class B common stock, which is entitled to ten votes per share, is primarily owned by descendants of the family of our founder, Levi Strauss, and their relatives and trusts established for their behalf. Collectively, these persons have the ability to control the outcome of stockholder votes, including the election of our board of directors and the approval or rejection of a merger, change of control or other significant corporate transaction. In addition, so long as any shares of Class B common stock remain outstanding, the approval of the holders of a majority of our then-outstanding Class B common stock (or, in certain cases, a majority of our then-outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock, voting together as a single class) will be required in order for us to take certain actions.
This control may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, certain index providers have announced restrictions on including companies with multiple-class share structures in certain of their indexes. S&P Dow Jones and FTSE Russell have recently announced changes to their eligibility criteria for inclusion of shares of public companies on certain indices, including the S&P 500. These changes exclude companies with multiple classes of shares of common stock from being added to such indices. In addition, several stockholder advisory firms have announced their opposition to the use of multiple class structures. As a result, the dual class structure of our common stock may prevent the inclusion of our Class A common stock in such indices and may cause stockholder advisory firms to publish negative commentary about our corporate governance practices or otherwise seek to cause us to change our capital structure. Any such exclusion from indices could result in a less active trading market for our Class A common stock. Any actions or publications by stockholder advisory firms critical of our corporate governance practices or capital structure could also adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock.
We believe having a long-term-focused, committed and engaged stockholder base provides us with an important strategic advantage, particularly in our business, where our more than 165-year history contributes to the iconic reputations of our brands. However, the interests of these stockholders may not always be aligned with each other or with the interests of our other stockholders. By exercising their control, these stockholders could cause our company to take actions that are at odds with the investment goals or interests of institutional, short-term or other non-controlling investors, or that have a negative effect on our stock price. Further, because these stockholders control the majority of our Class B common stock, we might be a less attractive takeover target, which could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.
If securities or industry analysts either do not publish research about us or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us, our business or our market, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our Class A common stock, the trading price or trading volume of our Class A common stock could decline.
The trading market for our Class A common stock is influenced in part by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If one or more of the analysts initiate research with an unfavorable rating or downgrade our Class A common stock, provide a more favorable recommendation about our competitors or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our Class A common stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the trading price or trading volume of our Class A common stock to decline.
Future securities issuances could result in significant dilution to our stockholders and impair the market price of our Class A common stock.
Future issuances of our Class A common stock or the conversion of a substantial number of shares of our Class B common stock, or the perception that these issuances or conversions may occur, could depress the market price of our Class A common stock and result in dilution to existing holders of our Class A common stock. Also, to the extent stock-based awards are issued or become vested, there will be further dilution. The amount of dilution could be substantial depending upon the size of the issuances or exercises. Furthermore, we may issue additional equity securities that could have rights senior to those of our Class A common stock. As a result, purchasers of Class A common stock bear the risk that future issuances of debt or equity securities may reduce the value of such shares and further dilute their ownership interest.
As of November 29, 2020, there were 6,587,363 shares of Class A common stock and 10,953,272 shares of Class B common stock issuable pursuant to restricted stock units ("RSUs"), performance restricted stock units ("PRSUs") and stock appreciation rights ("SARs") that may be settled in shares of our Class A or Class B common stock. All of the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise or settlement of such awards, or upon the conversion of shares of Class B common stock issuable upon exercise or settlement of such awards, are registered for public resale under the Securities Act. Accordingly, these shares will be able to be freely sold in the public market upon issuance as permitted by any applicable vesting requirements, and subject to compliance with applicable securities laws.
Holders of more than 90% of our Class B common stock have contractual rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements for the public resale of the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of their Class B common stock, or to include such shares in registration statements that we may file.
The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, result in more litigation and divert management’s attention.
Although we have made filings with the SEC for many years, as a public company we are subject to the additional reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the NYSE and other applicable securities rules and regulations. For example, we are required to file proxy statements under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. Complying with these rules and regulations has increased and will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We may also need to hire additional employees or engage outside consultants to comply with these requirements, which will increase our costs and expenses.
In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected.
These new rules and regulations may make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and, in the future, we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, and qualified executive officers.
By disclosing information in the various filings required of a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If those claims are successful, our business could be seriously harmed. Even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, the time and resources needed to resolve them could divert our management’s resources and seriously harm our business.