Our success depends on the continued protection of our trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property rights.
Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position, and the loss of or inability to enforce trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights could harm our business. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights on a global basis. In addition to our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, as we develop technologies that we believe are innovative, such as our F.L.X. technology, we intend to continually assess the patentability and other protectability of new intellectual property. However, the patents that we own and those that may be issued in the future may not adequately protect our intellectual property, survive legal challenges or provide us with competitive advantages, and our patent applications may not be granted. Our efforts to establish and protect our proprietary intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to claim ownership or seeking to block sales of our products. Unauthorized copying of our products or unauthorized use of our trademarks, patented technologies or other proprietary rights may not only erode sales of our products but may also cause significant reputational harm to our brand names and our ability to effectively represent ourselves to our consumers, contractors, suppliers and/or licensees. Moreover, others may seek to assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property, including through civil and/or criminal prosecution. We may not be able to successfully resolve those claims, which may result in financial liability and criminal penalties, and defending or pursuing such claims may create significant financial burdens. In addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries may not allow us to protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as we are able to in the United States and other countries.
We have substantial liabilities and cash requirements associated with our postretirement benefits, pension and deferred compensation plans.
Our postretirement benefits, pension and deferred compensation plans result in substantial liabilities on our balance sheet. These plans and activities have generated, and will generate, substantial cash requirements for us, and these requirements may increase beyond our expectations in future years based on changing market conditions. The difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Many variables, such as changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, investment returns and/or the market value of plan assets, can affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension, other postretirement, and postemployment benefit plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plans. Plan liabilities may impair our liquidity, have an unfavorable impact on our ability to obtain financing and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors who do not have such liabilities and cash requirements.
Natural disasters, public health crises, including the COVID-19 pandemic, political crises, and other catastrophic events or other events outside of our control may damage our facilities or the facilities of third parties on which we depend, and could impact consumer spending.
Our global headquarters and the headquarters of our Americas region are both located in California near major geologic faults that have experienced earthquakes in the past. An earthquake or other natural disaster or power shortages or outages could disrupt operations or impair critical systems. Any of these disruptions or other events outside of our control could affect our business negatively, harming our operating results. In addition, if any of our facilities, including our manufacturing, finishing or distribution facilities, our company-operated or franchised stores or the facilities of our suppliers, third-party service providers, or customers, is affected by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, power shortages or outages, floods or monsoons, public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics (including, for example, the COVID-19 pandemic), political crises, such as terrorism, war, political instability, social unrest, or other conflict; industrial accidents, such as structural integrity failure or fire; or other events outside of our control, our business and operating results could suffer. Disasters occurring at our or our vendors’ facilities also could impact our reputation and our consumers’ perception of our brands. Moreover, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or, depending upon the severity, globally, which could adversely impact our operating results. Any disruptions in our operations could negatively impact our business and operating results, and harm our reputation. In addition, we may not carry business insurance or may not carry sufficient business insurance to compensate for losses that may occur. Any such losses or damages could have a adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
Failure to comply with anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.
We are subject to the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws in various jurisdictions around the world. The FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar applicable laws generally prohibit companies, as well as their officers, directors, employees and third-party intermediaries, business partners and agents, from making improper payments or providing other improper things of value to government officials or other persons. We and our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state owned or affiliated entities and other third parties where we may be held liable for corrupt or other illegal activities, even if we do not explicitly authorize them. While we have policies and procedures and internal controls to address compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that all of our employees and third-party intermediaries, business partners and agents will not take actions in violation of such policies and laws, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. To the extent that we learn that any of our employees or third-party intermediaries, business partners or agents do not adhere to our policies, procedures or internal controls, we are committed to taking appropriate remedial action. In the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our directors, officers, employees or third-party intermediaries, agents or business partners have or may have violated such laws, we may be required to investigate or to have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances. Detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations can be extensive and require a significant diversion of time, resources and attention from senior management. Any violation of the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or other applicable anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws could result in whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, loss of export privileges, and criminal or civil sanctions, penalties and fines, any of which may could adversely affect our business and financial condition.
Our current and future products may experience quality problems from time to time that could result in negative publicity, litigation, product recalls and warranty claims, which could result in decreased revenues and harm to our brands.
There can be no assurance we will be able to detect, prevent or fix all defects that may affect our products. Inconsistency of legislation and regulations may also affect the costs of compliance with such laws and regulations. Such problems could hurt the image of our brands, which is critical to maintaining and expanding our business. Any negative publicity or lawsuits filed against us related to the perceived quality of our products could harm our brand and decrease demand for our products.
Climate change may adversely impact our business.
Rising global average temperatures due to increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are causing significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. Changes in weather patterns and the increased frequency, intensity and duration of extreme weather events (e.g., floods, droughts and severe storms) could, among other things, adversely impact the cultivation of cotton, which is a key resource in the production of our products, disrupt the operation of our supply chain and the productivity of our contract manufacturers, disrupt retail operations and foot traffic in consumer markets, increase our product costs and impact the types of apparel products that consumers purchase. As a result, the effects of climate change could have short- and long-term impacts on our business and operations.
Future acquisitions of and investments in new businesses could impact our business and financial condition.
From time to time, we may acquire or invest in businesses or partnerships that we believe could complement our business or offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of such acquisitions or investments may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses, regardless of whether the acquisition or investment is ultimately completed. In addition, acquisitions and investments may not perform as expected or cause us to assume unrecognized or underestimated liabilities. Further, if we are able to successfully identify and acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired personnel or operations, or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition, any of which could harm our business and financial condition.
Our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results.
We experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. Historically, revenues in our third and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in our first and second fiscal quarters. In addition, our customers and consumers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. Accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. This seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including the COVID-19 pandemic, general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, including the effects of climate change, the availability of import quotas, transportation disruptions and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate.
