Our success depends on our ability to maintain the value and reputation of our brands.
Our success depends in large part on the value, overall health and reputation of our brands, which are integral to our business and the implementation of our "Brand Led" strategy for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brands will depend largely on the success of our marketing, design and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide consistent, high-quality products supported by engaging marketing campaigns. Our brands and reputation could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives, if we fail to deliver high- quality products acceptable to our customers and consumers or if we face or mishandle a product recall.
Our brand value also depends on our ability to maintain a positive consumer perception of our brands, corporate integrity and culture. Negative claims or publicity involving us or our products, or the production methods of any of our suppliers or contract manufacturers, could seriously damage our reputation, sales and brand image, regardless of whether such claims or publicity are accurate. Social media, which accelerates and potentially amplifies the scope of negative claims or publicity, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims or publicity. In addition, we or our senior executives may from time to time take positions on social issues that may be unpopular with some customers or potential customers, which may impact our ability to attract or retain such customers. Adverse publicity could undermine consumer confidence in our brands and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if such publicity is unfounded. Any harm to our brands and reputation could adversely affect our business and financial condition.
We depend on a group of key wholesale customers for a significant portion of our revenues. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer's performance or financial position could harm our business and financial condition.
Sales to our top ten wholesale customers accounted for 29%, 26% and 27% of our total net revenues in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. No single customer represented 10% or more of our net revenues in any of these years. While we have long-standing relationships with our wholesale customers, we do not have long-term contracts with them. As a result, purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis, and the relationship, as well as particular orders, can generally be terminated by either party at any time. If any major wholesale customer decreases or ceases its purchases from us, cancels its orders, delays or defaults on its payment obligations to us, reduces the floor space, assortments, fixtures or advertising for our products or changes its manner of doing business with us for any reason, such as due to store closures, decreased foot traffic or recession resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, such actions are expected to adversely affect our business and financial condition. Furthermore, certain of our major wholesale customers may seek to distribute our products globally in a manner or at prices that impact the positioning that we seek to promote in our other channels of distribution. In addition, a decline in the performance or financial condition of a major wholesale customer– including bankruptcy or liquidation– could result in a adverse impact on revenues and cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to our receivables from that customer or limit our ability to collect amounts related to previous purchases by that customer. For example, our wholesale customer, Sears Holdings Corporation, including Kmart, and our wholesale customer, J.C. Penney are currently undergoing bankruptcy proceedings. Permanent store closures and other developments in these proceedings have adversely affected our sales to these customers. We expect additional closures and other developments in these proceedings will likely adversely affect our sales to these customers in the future, even if they continue operations. In addition, store closures, decreased foot traffic and recession resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic will adversely affect the performance and will likely adversely affect the financial condition of many of these customers. The foregoing are expected to have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.
Our efforts to expand our retail business may not be successful, which could impact our operating results.
One of our key strategic priorities is our “DTC First” strategy, which includes our plan to become a leading world-class omni-channel retailer by expanding our consumer reach in brand-dedicated stores globally, including making selective investments in company-operated stores and e-commerce sites, franchisee and other brand-dedicated store models. In many locations, we face major, established retail competitors that may be able to better attract consumers and execute their retail strategies. In addition, a retail operating model involves substantial investments in equipment and property, information systems, inventory and personnel. Due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with these investments, a decline in sales or the closure of or poor performance of stores, including the closure of stores and decreased foot traffic resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, could result in significant costs and impacts to our margins. Our ability to grow our retail channel also depends on the availability and cost of real estate that meets our criteria for foot traffic, square footage, demographics and other factors. Failure to identify and secure adequate new locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of the fleet of stores, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
In addition, our investments in customer, digital, and omni-channel shopping initiatives may not deliver the results we anticipate. These initiatives involve significant investments in IT systems, data science and artificial intelligence initiatives, and significant operational changes. Our competitors are also investing in omni-channel initiatives, some of which may be more successful than our initiatives. If the implementation of our customer, digital, and omni-channel initiatives is not successful, or we do not realize the return on our investments in these initiatives that we anticipate, our operating results would be adversely affected.