We face cybersecurity, privacy and data protection risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks.
We utilize systems that allow for the secure storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding our consumers, employees, and others, including credit card information and personal information. To protect our employees and consumers through the COVID-19 pandemic we may process and make decisions based on individuals’ personal health information, such as whether to close facilities, perform cleaning, or engage in contact tracing, even though the medical guidance on symptoms and disease prevention is not static. As evidenced by the numerous companies who have suffered serious data security breaches, we may be vulnerable to, and unable to anticipate or detect, data security breaches and data loss, including rapidly evolving and increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity attacks. In addition, data security breaches can also occur as a result of a failure by us or our employees, such as failing to follow policies, procedures or training, or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. In addition to our own databases, we use third-party service providers to store, process and transmit confidential or personal information on our behalf. Although we contractually require these service providers to implement and use reasonable security measures and to comply with laws relating to privacy and data protection, we cannot control third parties and cannot guarantee that a data security breach will not occur in the future either at their location or within their systems.
A data security breach may expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, and could result in significant costs to us, which may include, among others, potential liabilities to payment card networks for reimbursement of credit card fraud and card reissuance costs, including fines and penalties, potential liabilities from governmental or third-party investigations, proceedings or litigation and diversion of management attention and also further inquiries and increased scrutiny from regulatory entities. We could also experience delays or interruptions in our ability to function in the normal course of business, including delays in the fulfillment or cancellation of customer orders or disruptions in the manufacture and shipment of products. In addition, actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. Any compromise or breach of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation, and a loss of consumer trust.
The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. In the United States, various laws and regulations apply to the collection, processing, disclosure and security of certain types of data, including the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Gramm Leach Bliley Act and state laws relating to privacy and data security, including the California Consumer Privacy Act. Several foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the European Union, also have laws and regulations dealing with the handling and processing of personal information obtained from their residents, which in certain cases are more restrictive than those in the United States. Laws and regulations in these jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of various types of data referred to as personal information. The definition of personal information, which includes data that identifies or may be used to identify an individual, directly or indirectly, such as names or email addresses and, in some jurisdictions, any unique identifier such as an internet protocol addresses, has been continually revised in a way that puts larger amounts of information within scope of the laws. Such laws and regulations may be modified or subject to new or different interpretations, and new laws and regulations may be enacted in the future. Within the European Union, the General Data Protection Regulation, which became effective in May 2018 and replaced the 1995 European Union Data Protection Directive and superseded applicable European Union member state legislation, imposes significant new requirements on how companies collect, process and transfer personal data, as well as significant fines for noncompliance. The increased complexity in these laws and the inherent conflicts between jurisdictions may result in an inability for the company to comply with all applicable requirements in the jurisdictions where we do business despite our best efforts.
Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with laws, regulations, policies or regulatory guidance relating to privacy or data security may result in governmental investigations and enforcement actions, litigation, fines and penalties or adverse publicity, and could cause our customers and consumers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. Our efforts to implement evolving global detailed legal requirements relating to protection of personal information creates uncertainty in our ability to anticipate the volume of consumer inquiries, to timely respond, and to predict consumer understanding of our business practices which may all unintentionally create confusion about our practices and cause loss of trust and damage to our reputation.
We currently rely on contract manufacturing of our products. Our inability to secure production sources meeting our quality, cost, social and environmental risk mitigation and other requirements, or failures by our contract manufacturers to perform, could harm our sales, service levels and reputation.
In fiscal year 2020, we sourced approximately 99% of our products from independent contract manufacturers that purchase fabric and make our products and may also provide us with design and development services. As a result, we must locate and secure production capacity. We depend on contract manufacturers to maintain adequate financial resources, including access to sufficient credit, to secure a sufficient supply of raw materials, and maintain sufficient development and manufacturing capacity in an environment characterized by continuing cost pressure and demands for product innovation and speed-to-market. In addition, we currently do not have any material long-term contracts with any of our contract manufacturers. Under our current arrangements with our contract manufacturers, these manufacturers generally may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time. While we have historically worked with numerous manufacturers, in recent years we have begun consolidating the number of contract manufacturers from which we source our products. In addition, some of our contract manufacturers have merged. Reliance on a fewer number of contract manufacturers involves risk, and any difficulties or failures to perform by our contract manufacturers could cause delays in product shipments or otherwise negatively affect our results of operations. If our contract manufacturers, or any raw material vendors or suppliers on which our contract manufacturers rely, suffer prolonged manufacturing or transportation disruptions due to public health conditions, such as the recent COVID-19 pandemic, or other unforeseen events, our ability to source product on a timely basis could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Also, we have certain minimum inventory purchase commitments, including fabric commitments, with suppliers that secure a portion of material needs for future seasons. If we do not satisfy the minimum purchase commitments, due to conditions such as decreased demand, we will be charged for estimated adverse purchase commitments.
A contract manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards, or interference with our ability to receive shipments due to factors such as port or transportation conditions or security incidents, could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers. Failing to make timely deliveries may cause our customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries, impose non-compliance charges, demand reduced prices, or reduce future orders, any of which could harm our sales and margins. If we need to replace any contract manufacturer, we may be unable to locate additional contract manufacturers on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or we may be unable to locate additional contract manufacturers with sufficient capacity to meet our requirements or to fill our orders in a timely manner.
We require contract manufacturers to make progress toward our sustainability goals and meet our standards and policies in terms of working conditions, environmental protection, raw materials, facility safety, security and other matters before we are willing to place business with them. As such, we may not be able to obtain the lowest-cost production. We also may need to move our production to the extent that we determine our contract manufacturers are not in compliance with our standards or applicable government standards, sanctions or other restrictions. We may also encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our contract manufacturers in our methods, products and quality control standards. In addition, the labor and business practices of apparel manufacturers and their suppliers, including raw material suppliers, have received increased attention from the media, non-governmental organizations, consumers and governmental agencies in recent years. Any failure by our contract manufacturers or their suppliers to adhere to labor or other laws, appropriate labor or business practices, safety, structural or environmental standards, and the potential litigation, negative publicity and political pressure relating to any of these events, could harm our business and reputation.
