Our suppliers may be impacted by economic conditions and cycles and changing laws and regulatory requirements which could impact their ability to do business with us or cause us to terminate our relationship with them and require us to find replacements, which we may have difficulty doing.
Our suppliers are subject to the fluctuations in general economic cycles, and global economic conditions may impact their ability to operate their businesses. They may also be impacted by the increasing costs or availability of raw materials, labor and distribution, resulting in demands for less attractive contract terms or an inability for them to meet our requirements or conduct their own businesses. The performance and financial condition of a supplier may cause us to alter our business terms or to cease doing business with a particular supplier, or change our sourcing practices generally, which could in turn adversely affect our business and financial condition.
In addition, regulatory developments such as reporting requirements on the use of "conflict" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, or compliance with the recent sanctions and customs trade orders issued by the U.S. government related to entities and individuals who are connected to the Xinjiang region of China, could affect the sourcing and availability of raw materials used by our suppliers in the manufacturing of certain of our products. We have been and may continue to be subject to costs associated with regulations, including for the diligence pertaining to these matters and the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The impact of such regulations may result in a limited pool of acceptable suppliers, and we cannot be assured that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, because our supply chain is complex, we may face regulatory challenges in complying with applicable sanctions and trade regulations and reputational challenges with our consumers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the material used in the products we sell.
If one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their obligations to us, we may incur significant losses.
As part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, which may include forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars and swaps, with various financial institutions. In addition, we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the United States and abroad. We also have entered into the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (as defined below) with several financial institutions that provides us with additional credit availability. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. This risk may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. If one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty’s liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. In the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.
The loss of members of our executive management and other key employees or the failure to attract and retain key personnel could harm our business.
Our future success depends, in part, on the continued service of our executive management team and other key employees, and the loss of the services of any key individual could harm our business. Our future success also depends, in part, on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate our employees sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. Competition for experienced and well-qualified employees in our industry is particularly intense in many of the places where we do business, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Moreover, shifts in U.S. immigration policy could negatively impact our ability to attract, hire and retain highly skilled employees who are from outside the United States.
Most of the employees in our production and distribution facilities are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and any material job actions could negatively affect our results of operations.
In North America, most of our distribution employees are covered by various collective bargaining agreements. Outside North America, most of our production and distribution employees are covered by either industry-sponsored and/or government-sponsored collective bargaining mechanisms. Any work stoppages or other job actions by these employees could harm our business and reputation.
Our licensees and franchisees may not comply with our product quality, manufacturing standards, social, environmental, marketing and other requirements, which could negatively affect our reputation and business.
We license our trademarks to third parties for manufacturing, marketing and distribution of various products. While we enter into comprehensive agreements with our licensees covering product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and other requirements, our licensees may not comply fully with those agreements. Non-compliance could include marketing products under our brand names that do not meet our quality and other requirements or engaging in manufacturing practices that do not meet our sustainability standards and policies including our supplier code of conduct or applicable government restrictions and regulations. These activities could harm our brand equity, our reputation and our business.
In addition, we enter into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores and, in certain circumstances, websites, in many countries around the world. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores and websites that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. While the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, the value of our brands could be impaired to the extent that these third parties do not operate their businesses, including their stores or websites in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards. Failure to protect the value of our brands, or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation.
