Risks Relating to Our Business
The novel coronavirus disease (or COVID-19) pandemic is expected to have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted consumer spending and global supply chains, and created significant volatility and disruption of financial markets. The COVID-19 pandemic has had an adverse impact on our business and financial performance, and we expect this adverse impact to continue. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial performance, including our ability to execute our near-term and long-term business strategies and initiatives in the expected time frame, will depend on future developments, including the duration, severity and any resurgences of the pandemic, which are uncertain and cannot be predicted.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and in response to government mandates or recommendations, as well as decisions we have made to protect the health and safety of our employees, consumers and communities, we temporarily closed a significant number of our stores globally. While most of our stores have reopened, we may face new or longer term store closure requirements and other operational restrictions with respect to some or all of our physical locations for prolonged periods of time due to, among other factors, evolving and increasingly stringent governmental restrictions including public health directives, quarantine policies or social distancing measures. In particular, given the recent resurgence in the COVID-19 pandemic, we again have had to close stores and may need to again close a significant number of our stores in the future. In addition, many of our customers, including significant customers in our wholesale and franchise distribution channels, have closed many of their stores, either temporarily or permanently, which has adversely impacted our revenues from these customers and franchisees. As a result, we expect our financial results to be adversely impacted.
In addition, consumer fears about becoming ill with the disease may continue, which has and is likely to continue to adversely affect foot traffic to our and our customers' stores. Consumer spending generally may also be negatively impacted by general macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence, including the impacts of any recession, resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. This may negatively impact sales in our stores and our e-commerce channel and may cause our wholesale customers to purchase fewer products from us. Furthermore, if sales do not meet expectations because of unexpected effects on consumer demand caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the resulting surplus inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned gross margins. Any continued significant reduction in consumer visits to, or spending at, our and our customers' stores, caused by COVID-19, and any continued decreased spending at stores or online caused by decreased consumer confidence and spending following the pandemic, would result in a loss of sales and profits and, as a result, adversely impact our financial results.
The COVID-19 pandemic also has the potential to significantly impact our supply chain if the factories that manufacture our products, the distribution centers where we manage our inventory, or the operations of our logistics and other service providers are disrupted, temporarily closed or experience worker shortages. We may also see disruptions or delays in shipments and negative impacts to pricing of certain components of our products.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, including related governmental guidance or requirements, we also have recently closed many of our corporate office and other facilities, including our corporate headquarters in San Francisco, and have implemented a work from home policy for many of our corporate employees. This policy may negatively impact productivity and cause other disruptions to our business. Longer term, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may also threaten the health of our employees and adversely impact our health care costs.
The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business is highly uncertain and difficult to predict, as information is rapidly evolving with respect to the duration and severity of the pandemic. At this point, we cannot reasonably estimate the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, or its overall impact on our business.