Licensing
The appeal of our brands across consumer groups and our global reach enable us to license our Levi's® and Dockers® trademarks for a variety of product categories in multiple markets in each of our regions, including footwear, belts, wallets and bags, outerwear, sweaters, dress shirts, kidswear, sleepwear and hosiery. Licensing accounted for 2% of our total net revenues in each of fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018.
We enter into licensing agreements with our licensees covering royalty payments, product design and manufacturing standards, marketing and sale of licensed products, and protection of our trademarks. We require our licensees to follow our sustainability strategy, policies and guidelines, including being compliant with our code of conduct for contract manufacturing and engage independent monitors to perform regular on-site inspections and assessments of production facilities.
Sales, Distribution and Customers
We recognize wholesale revenue from sales of our products through third-party retailers such as department stores, specialty retailers, third-party e-commerce sites and franchise locations dedicated to our brands. We also sell our products directly to consumers through a variety of formats, including our own company-operated mainline and outlet stores, company-operated e- commerce sites and select shop-in-shops located in department stores and other third-party retail locations. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, many of the third-party retailer locations and our company-operated stores were temporarily closed for various periods of time during the year.
We seek to make our products available where consumers shop, providing both in-store and online shopping experiences, as well as offering products that are appropriately tailored for our wholesale customers and their retail consumers. We take care to select wholesale customers and distributors that we believe will represent our brands in a manner consistent with our values and growth strategies. Sales to our top ten wholesale customers for fiscal year 2020, fiscal year 2019, and fiscal year 2018, totaled 29%, 26% and 27% of our net revenues in those fiscal years, respectively. No single customer represented 10% or more of our net revenues in any of these years.
We also sell our products directly to consumers through shop-in-shops located in certain of our wholesale customers’ and other third-party retail locations. Typically, this format is conducted on a concession basis, whereby the inventory continues to be owned by us (not the retailer) until ultimate sale to the end consumer. The salespeople involved in these transactions are generally our employees and not those of the retailer. We recognize revenue in the amount of the sale to the end consumer, while paying our partners a commission. We operated approximately 500 of these shop-in-shops as of November 29, 2020.